                                     Final Project Proposal

Introduction: This manual will include a step by step tutorial of how to register for classes at
Howard University. It will explain how to navigate BisonWeb and all of its features.
Additionally, how to use DegreeWorks and coursicle to build a course scheme and decide which
classes are needed in your schedule. It will also feature a section informing students of potential
roadblocks they might face while registering for classes, and how to avoid them.

Justification: This manual’s target audience is Howard University undergraduate students,
specifically freshmen. Registering for classes at Howard is a complex process that requires a lot
of planning and communication with faculty. The goal is to make registration less stressful and to
lower user congestion that occurs on BisonWeb.

Project Planning:
Project Steps                                                   Roles

1. Building Advisor Connections & Accessing Alternate Pins      Kariana Smith

2. Building Your Scheme w/ BisonWeb                             Zerisha Watson/ Ugenia Taylor

3. Building Your Scheme w/ DegreeWorks & Coursicle              Zaynab Ibrahim / Jamison Jenkins

4. Registration Holds                                           Kristin Chance / Zerisha Watson

5.Restriction Code Descriptions                                 Kaia Rascoe/ Azandria Hudson

6.Additional Resources                                          Mia Rivers/ Adrianna Starkey



Building Advisor Connections & Accessing Alternate Pins

        Having a connection and gaining wisdom from your counselor is very important and
beneficial towards one's registration process. A counselor provides support for all students across
campus. Their role is to accommodate the students' needs, so that they may have a smooth
transition into their upcoming semester. They also answer important questions one may have in
regards to courses, achieving a minor, providing recommendations, stating what classes to take
each semester and so much more. Without proper assistance from trained individuals, navigating
a college curriculum can be very stressful and unmanageable.
        An example in which one needs a counselor’s help is when registering for classes. A
student would need to look at their course scheme to pick their classes, but before they chose
which class to take they must contact their counselor in order to receive their alternative pins.
The alternate pin dictates a specific number to put into any college website course provider (or
BisonWeb for Howard University students) which then allows a student to apply for their classes.
This is only done after the counselor has approved the student of taking the necessary courses
required for their major. If one doesn’t seek their counselor for assistance, they may have a very
hard time with the registration process. Build a connection with them and seek their professional
help!

       We have personally gained so much knowledge, assistance and kindness from our current
counselors. Although sometimes it may seem a little overwhelming or intimidating to call and
ask a question or discuss your course scheme with them, remember they are there to help with
any educational questions you may have. Many times the discussions are very straightforward
and quick. We would recommend keeping your counselor up to date with your courses and ask
any questions at least once a month to ensure the best connection with your counselor!
Building Your Course Scheme With BisonWeb

Utilizing BisonWeb
    1. DegreeWorks does not work for everyone and if you do not need all the information
        Dehree Works has to offer, you can always go to the “Registration” tab on BisonWeb and
        click “Look-up Classes to Add”. All you need is the subject of the class that you are
        looking for.
    2. Choose a semester and a list of all the subjects taught at Howard should show up.
    3. Pick a subject and all of its courses will appear with different time sections and
        professors.
    4. Once you choose a section, click the “Register” button at the bottom of the page and
        BisonWeb will add it to your schedule.
    5. When adding CRNs to your schedule in the Add/Drop section, use the boxes at the
        bottom of the page. When you click on one you will be able to type in the CRN and you
        can fill up the whole row of boxes with different CRNs to apply to all your classes at
        once.
            a. Warning: BisonWeb runs slow on registration days, especially in the
                 morning. If the website crashes, simply stay on the website and wait for it to
                 start back up. If you are kicked out, log back on and go straight to the
                 Add/Drop page to continue registering. Do not panic and click refresh or the
                 back button, it will make the page run slower. Do not delete your alternative
                 pin. Even if you register for all your credits in one day you might need to
                 return to change a section or drop a course completely. Keep your pin until
                 you get the next one.
            b. Be mindful that you would only be able to register for classes from
                 Monday-Sunday 9am-Midnight. During registration day the website might be a
                 little slow due to everyone being on at the same time so try to log into BisonWeb
                 around 8am.

   You do not have wait for registration to do this. Try finding your course scheme through an
advisor or administrator from your major department. Afterwards, look up all your courses and
create a schedule for every upcoming semester. Save the CRNs somewhere you can easily access
     them and remember to follow up with your advisor to ensure you are on the right track.
Building Your Course Scheme With DegreeWorks & Coursicle
Utilizing DegreeWorks
    1. Log into BisonWeb (https://ssb-prod.ec.howard.edu/PROD/twbkwbis.P_WWWLogin)
            c. Username: Student ID (e.g: @12345678)
            d. Password is your birth date or the 6 digit pin you changed it to
    2. Under the “Student Services” tab on the homepage click on “Students Records”
    3. You will find the tab button labeled “DegreeWorks”. Clicking on it should take you to a
        page that lays out the course scheme for your major and courses for any minors that you
        are registered for.
            a. Warning: DegreeWorks is not updated on the changes made to course
                offerings or curricular pathways. Also, it does not keep an accurate record of
                the ones you have taken so create a separate document of your completed
                courses with the grade you earned.
            b. DegreeWorks holds all the course CRNs under the subjects you need to graduate.
                It will tell you the amount of seats open and the scheduled class times when you
                click on the link for a class.
    4. If the “Add/Drop Classes” tab is open on BisonWeb, you can simply copy and paste the
        CRN into your schedule. If it is not time for registration you can always save it for later.
            a. If it works properly, DegreeWorks will mark the classes you have already taken,
                are registered for, your grades, and the amount of credits you have. It will even
                split your course scheme into classes you are supposed to take as an
                underclassman and upperclassman and how much credits you should have during
                those years.
            b. If you just want a run down of your grades for each semester, click on the “Class
                History” button.
            c. If you want to know what classes you will have to take if you declare a minor,
                click the “What If” tab and choose the subject you wish to minor in.
            d. Warning: It is recommended you do not use DegreeWorks on the day that
                you register because going back and forth between multiple tabs is time
                consuming. Instead, look at classes beforehand and copy the CRN.

Utilizing Coursicle
        Coursicle is a website designed to help students create mock schedules before and during
class registration. All students need to do is go to coursicle.com and type in Howard. Once you
select Howard you will be brought to a page that is titled “Schedule” with the term you are going
to be registering for and a search bar to the left side. In the search bar you can look up classes to
add to your schedule or you can click “Browse” and search through a more extensive course
catalog that will allow you to see all of the sections Howard is offering for that term. Coursicle
does not make the number of seats left for each class present so it is important to keep track
through DegreeWorks. However, you can turn on notifications for one class to see if the section
is still open or buy Coursicle premium and get to turn on notifications for all the classes on your
mock schedule to keep track of whether or not they are still available. Coursicle allows students
to see the section number, CRN, location, professor, and sometimes professor rating for each
class. It’s important to use Coursicle in conjunction with DegreeWorks so you can see the layout
of your schedule and if any classes you want to register for overlap. Coursicle also allows
students to make as many mock schedules as they’d like so you can create a backup schedule if
you can’t register for the classes you initially wanted.
Registration Holds

To ensure a smooth registration process, students must be sure they don't have any holds on their
accounts. Students are unable to register until all account holds have been released. Be sure to
check your account prior to registration to see if you have any holds.

Steps to view holds: Login to BisonWeb - Click Student Services - Click Student Records - Click
View Holds

In order to get holds released, students must contact the office that placed the hold.
    ● Admission (Undergraduate) Hold (admission@howard.edu)
    ● Admission (Graduate) Hold (hugsadmission@howard.edu)
    ● Bursar/SFS Hold (bursarhelp@howard.edu)
    ● Dean’s Hold (the Dean of your school/college)
    ● Financial Aid Hold (finaid@howard.edu)
    ● International Student Hold (pugbong@howard.edu)
    ● Medical Hold (studenthealthforms@howard.edu)1
    ● Residence Life Hold (HUreslife@howard.edu)
    ● Student Affairs Hold (studentaffairs@howard.edu)
    ● Student Conduct Hold (studentconduct@howard.edu)
    ● Delinquent Hold (finaid@howard.edu)

1
 For medical holds, students can check med+proctor (medproctor.com) to see what documents
are required. Once you have met all of the requirements, holds should be released within 72
business hours. For any questions, you can email studenthealthforms@howard.edu or call
202-806-7540.
Restriction Code Descriptions
https://howard.edu/registrar/registration


 Error                      Description

 “C”                        The course is closed and at full capacity. You can add yourself to
                            the waitlist if available or choose from an open section. Students on
                            the waitlist will be notified by the Office of the Registrar via email
                            if a seat is available.

 You are not permitted to   If you try to register between 9 a.m. and 11:59 p.m., have
 register at this time      registered and earned grades for the semester prior, and/or have
                            been officially notified of readmission then contact the Office of
                            Registrar for assistance with this error.

                            This error may also pop up if you are not registering between the
                            hours of 9 a.m. and 11:59 p.m. on your designated registration
                            days.

 Academic Standing          This means that you may have been academically suspended. You
 Prohibits Registration     should review your academic history on BisonWeb and reach out
                            and consult with your academic advisor for additional assistance.

 Special Grading Options    When this error appears, it just means that the course you are trying
 (Audit)                    to enroll in has more than one grading option. The default option is
                            the standard letter grade mode (A-F), but if you want a different
                            grading mode you have to request it using a Course Audit Form.

 “SR”                       This error occurs if you are not eligible to register. Check your
                            student status and any holds on account. Also refer to the General
                            Registration Schedule and the University Calendar to ensure you
                            are registering on the correct date. For additional help, you may
                            need to meet with your Academic Advisor.

 Time Conflicting           This error occurs when the course you are trying to register for
                            meets at the same time or overlaps. To bypass this registration
                            error, written approval from the instructor needs to be given to your
                            Academic Advisor.

 Prerequisite and Test      This error means that a prerequisite course or exam score is
 Score Error                required to enroll in the class. To override this, your Academic
                            Advisor has to determine if it is warranted. If approved, your
                            advisor should process a system override.

 Course Restrictions        Exceptions to these restrictions REQUIRE the right approval and
                            have to be correctly processed by your Academic Advisor or the
                            appropriate department:
                          ● LEVEL: This indicates that the course you are trying to
                            enroll in is restricted to a certain level (undergraduate,
                            graduate, law school, or PhD candidates).
                          ● DEGREE: This indicates that this course is restricted to a
                            certain degree (B.A., BS, MA, MS, etc.)
                          ● FIELD OF STUDY (MAJOR, MINOR,
                            CONCENTRATION): This indicates that the course you
                            are trying to enroll in is restricted to certain majors, minors,
                            or concentrations. The only way to bypass this restriction is
                            to get permission from the major department to register.
                          ● CLASS: This indicates that this course is restricted to
                            certain classifications ( e.g., juniors or seniors). In order to
                            bypass this restriction, the department must allow access.
                          ● COLLEGE: This indicates that the course is restricted to a
                            certain college. Permission to enroll in this course can be
                            granted by the school/college.
                          ● DEPARTMENT: To get permission to register for this
                            class contact the office of the academic department offering
                            the course. The department needs to process a system
                            override, if approved.

                       For additional questions or concerns about these restrictions,
                       consult with your Academic Advisor or the appropriate
                       department.

CRN is Invalid         Check digits assigned to course are inputted correctly

Holds on record        Registration is prohibited due to student account holds. For more
                       information on holds, please reference Holds(Section in manual)

Instructor Signature   Written permission from the course instructor is needed to register
                       for this class. You will need to ask the instructor typically through
                       email. It’s best practice to include your name, major, year, and a
                       reason for wanting to join. If approved, your course instructor must
                       submit the written permission to your Academic Advisor for
                       processing.

Maximum Hours          This error means you have met the specific number of maximum
Exceeded               credit hours depending on your school or college. There are
                       specific requirements to request that your credit hours be increased.
                       Approval from the appropriate Academic Advisor or Dean must be
                       received in the Office of the Registrar. An increase could cause
                       excess tuition rates!

                       For credit increases at or below the general maximum (e.g., 21
                       credit hours for undergraduate students), meet with your Academic
Advisor for further assistance.

For all credit hour increases above the maximum (e.g., 22 or more
credit hours for undergraduate students), you need to consult with
the Academic Dean of your school/college.
Additional Resources

                  Purpose                         Link/Contact

   Official Howard Registration homepage   ​https://tinyurl.com/3bmctr4v

               Dean contacts               https://tinyurl.com/db823emn

         Majors/Programs Directory         https://tinyurl.com/db823emn

       Departmental contacts database      https://tinyurl.com/2p88fsem

        HU Scholarship appeal form         https://tinyurl.com/2p8v44sn

              Course catalogue             https://tinyurl.com/mvddrtec

            Dynamic course list            https://tinyurl.com/29hvrt9s

              Advisor contacts             ​https://tinyurl.com/2r9kp96z

           Create sample schedule          https://tinyurl.com/2p93tmh2

          Transfer credit approval         https://tinyurl.com/y2wsfwtj
                                             admission@howard.edu

           Graduation Instructions         https://tinyurl.com/yw7fbbft

    IT troubleshoot contact for BisonWeb     huhelpdesk@howard.edu

        HU Scholarship appeal form         https://tinyurl.com/2p8v44sn

          Course withdrawal form           https://tinyurl.com/2p83y5un

        Total withdrawal request form      https://tinyurl.com/2p94uxwj
